- Initiative
	- units gain action-ticks when they perform actions.
	- the unit with the currently least amount of ticks goes first
	- in case of draw, roll a piloting action. loser goes first
	- interrupts: possible if interrupting unit sees the action and has less ticks than the actor after finishing the action
		- only one interrupt per action
		- interrupts may not be interrupted
		- if interrupter ends their interrupt with less ticks the actor after their action, the interrupt is resolved first
		- if the interrupter ends their their interrupt with more ticks than the actor after their action, both interrupt and action are resolved
	- preflight: determine initial ticks if no scenario is set
- Movement
	- every unit has at least one movement action `[movement mode]: (X+Y) Hexes for (t) ticks `
	- the movement action must always be paid in full, even when the unit moves significantly less than the max allowed (X+Y) Hexes
	- units that move more than (X) Hexes count as fast and gain a corresponding token
	- facing changes are free, a unit may chose a facing after it finishes its movement
- [[terrain]]
	- terrain never slows units down, but may demand a piloting action to avoid averse effects depending on movement mode
	- ((6878983a-73b7-4d77-a8ec-05b9e993e38d))
	- ((6878983a-b79b-4d52-977c-a286af0e5b16))
	- ((6878983a-2fc1-461b-a1db-a9a03c3ae703))
- [[Jumping]]
	- Jump jets can be used to improve existing movement action
	- All jump movement is in a straigt line.
	- Thrust points can be spend vertically, where one Thrustpoints increases the movement by 1 Hex
	- Thrust points can also be spend for vertical movement, where 2 Thrustpoints are enough to change 1 level of height (and safely back down)
	- A jump is always initiated with 2 thrustpoints spent (in order to gain ground clearance and raise 1 level above ground.)
	- Landing requires a piloting action as per the rules of the terrain landed in.
- [[Spotting]]
	- calculate the [[apparent size]] of the targeted unit; start at the base size of the unit and substract one if the target is [[stationary]] (motionless targets are harder to spot.) if target has [[camouflage]] , this may apply, too. if the target is partly obscured, substract another one. each intervening [[hex]] (including the one occupied by target) of [[forest]] deducts another one. [[Buildings]] and [[dense forest]] count as two forests, but only if it is the only intervening piece of cover - is there anything else in the [[Line of Sight]] , the line of sight is completely blocked.
	- units up to < [[apparent size]] > Hexes away are spotted automatically, up to twice the range requires an average roll, three times require a good roll etc.
- [[shooting]]
	- establish required shooting action based on [[aiming]], [[target distance]] and [[target speed]]. meet or best the **most difficult requirement**.
	- [[Aiming]] : the shooter announces the amount of [[ticks]] they want to spend aiming. Note, while on the move, the number of ticks is limited by the #Stabilisation of the weapon used. When doing so, however, no extra ticks must be paid - shooting happens while the unit moves; this also means the attacker may choose the exact point in his movement path where shooting takes place.
	- If a unit does not move, the effective ammount of Ticks usable to aim is limited by the weapons #aimtime
	- |Ticks used to aim| max. distance [Hx] for appropriate| max. distance [Hx] which requires a good shot|
	  |---|---|---|
	  | 0 | impossible | 1 |
	  | 1 | 1 | 2|
	  | 2 | 2 | 4 |
	  | 3 | 4 | 8 |
	  | 4 | 8 | 16 |
	  | 5 | 16 | 32 |
	- [[target distance]] : hitting a unit is one tier more difficult than [[Spotting]] it - if the target is up to its [[apparent size]] in Hexes away, you need an appropriate shot, up to twice its apparent size requires a good shot and only an excellent shot may hit a target up to three times its apparent size hexes away.
	- [[target speed]] :  start the calculation at appropriate. A fast target adds one tier to the requirement. If the target moves and is further away as the [[weapon velocity]] stat, add (another) tier.
	- If the target is [[stationary]] , *all* requirements (meaning also those from range and those from aiming) are reduced by one tier.
	-
- [[Close Quarters Combat]]
	- if the target of the attack is **fast** and within the *minimum engagement Range
	-
	-